U.S. Office of Personnel Management

Request for Referral of Eligibles
2. Certificate of Eligibles control number

1. Name of issuing official

3. Date issued (mm/dd/yyyy)

I. AGENCY REQUEST
4. Department or agency name

7. Agency request number

6. Bureau or field office

5. Department or agency organization code

8. Date of request (mm/dd/yyyy)

9. Identify appropriate delegated examining office and address

10b. Series

10a. Number of vacancies
10c. Position title

11. Type of appointment

10d. Grade (salary, if ungraded)

Career or career-conditional
(Provide justification in remarks)

Temporary NTE:
Term NTE:
12. Full performance level

10e. Duty location

(Provide justification in remarks)

13. Date SF 52 or request initiated

14. CTAP/ICTAP cleared

(Potential)

Yes

(e.g., shift or seasonal work, medical exam, etc.)

16. Reemployment priority list
cleared
No
Yes

17. Indicate maximum number of nights per month the appointee
will be required to be away from home in a travel status.

18. Date position(s) needs to
be filled (mm/dd/yyyy)

19. Work Schedule
Part-time employment of
Full-time employment
Other (specify)

None

1 to 5

15. Other conditions of employment

No

11 or more

6 to 10

Intermittent employment

20. Remarks. Provide any special qualification requirements (e.g., selective factors).

21. Address where Certificate of Eligibles is to be sent:

22a. Contact name
22b. Contact telephone number

22c. Contact fax number

22d. Contact e-mail address

II. CERTIFICATION of ELIGIBLES (To Be Completed by DE Office)
Delegated examining office:
The attached Certificate of Eligibles is provided in response to the above request.
This Certificate of Eligibles is valid only for the position(s), grade(s), and duty location(s) shown above.
This Certificate of Eligibles must be returned by___________________________, according to agency policy.
For information concerning this Certificate of Eligibles contact:

III. REPORT
To issuing office: If Certificate of Eligibles is returned unused, please explain why:

Signature of appointing official

Name and title of appointing official

Date signed (mm/dd/yyyy)

U.S. Office of Personnel Management
5 CFR part 332

Standard Form 39
Revised April 2011
Previous editions not usable

Print Form

Save Form

Clear Form

Request for Referral of Eligibles
Instructions and Information for Agency Selecting and Appointing Officials
General:
The information on the Certificate of Eligibles is for the United States Government use only. Treat Certificate of Eligibles, including
qualification statements and other attached documents, as privileged information. Return Certificate of Eligibles to the issuing office by the
date indicated in Section II.
Selections from Certificate of Eligibles must be made in compliance with title 5, United States Code, Sections 3318 and 3319 and any
regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. See Guide to Processing Personnel Actions located on OPM's website,
http://www.opm.gov/feddata/gppa/gppa.asp, for further instructions on required pre-appointment checks. Additional information on making
selections can be found in title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) sections 330 subpart F and G, 332.404, and 332.406(b)(c)(d).

Explanation of Key Terms and Footnotes
Footnotes or remarks are placed beside a particular eligible’s name on a Certificate of Eligibles or on the eligible’s qualifications statement
to convey information about that person and, as appropriate, to alert the office to necessary actions.
Completion of Educational Requirements - Many examinations
recognize students who are within nine months of completing their
education as tentatively qualified. Therefore, such eligibles may not
enter on duty until they provide proof of completion of required
education to the appointing official.

The following key terms may appear adjacent to eligibles listed:
CPS -- 10-point compensable preference based on a
service-connected disability of 30% or more
CP -- 10-point compensable preference based on a service
connected disability of 10% or more, but less than 30%
XP -- 10-point other preference; granted to recipients of the Purple
Heart, persons with a non-compensable service-connected
disability (less than 10%), widow/widower or mother of a
deceased veteran, or spouse or mother of a disabled veteran
TP --

5-point preference

NV --

Non-Veteran

Superior Academic Achievement - Students who achieved
superior academic standing based on class standing, grade-point
average, or honor society membership may qualify for superior
academic achievement. Agency must verify such academic
achievement prior to selection.
Certification of Proficiency Claimed - An eligible who claims
typing and/or stenographic proficiency. Agency must verify claims
prior to selection

Reporting
Report appropriate action codes on the Certificate of Eligibles next to the appropriate name of the eligible. Declinations, Communication Returned
Unclaimed, and Failed to Respond codes must be supported by documentation. Action codes for use in reporting are listed below:

Declinations:

Others:

DA -- Declined Agency

A --

Selected (For each selection, provide the expected date of
appointment.)

DD -- Declined
CRU -- Communication Returned Unclaimed
DG -- Declined Grade or Salary
FR --

Failed to Respond

DL -- Declined Location
NC -- Appointed by Non-Competitive Action
DP -- Declined for the Position Certified Only
NS -- Not Selected
DZ -- Declined for other Reason
NN -- Not Contacted
Agency Objections:
(Under Delegated Examining Authority)

CE -- Career or Career-Conditional Employee*

RM -- Removed from Certificate-Medical (5 CFR part 339)

TE -- Temporary (or Term) Employee

RQ -- Removed from Certificate - Qualification (5 CFR part 337 or 338)
RS -- Removed from Certificate - Conduct (5 CFR part 731)

U.S. Office of Personnel Management
5 CFR part 332

** Already serving under the same appointing official, in the same type
of position, in the same (or higher) grade, at the same duty location.
Position title, grade and duty location must be listed as evidence that
all of the above conditions are present, including the type of
appointment and selecting official, if known.
(Back)

Standard Form 39
Revised April 2011
Previous editions not usable

